[ADD] appraisals: new documentation (#7487)
odoo/documentation: content/applications/hr/appraisals.rst

==========
Appraisals
==========

Odoo's *Appraisals* application is where employees are evaluated on a regular basis. Managers
evaluate the performance of their employees, and employees can do a self-assessment. Appraisals are
customizable and can be set for any kind of schedule.

Appraisals give employees valuable feedback including goals to work towards and skills to improve
upon. Appraisals may form the basis for raises, promotions, and other benefits. Regular appraisals
are good for both the employees and the company, by letting employees know how they are performing,
and how they can improve.

Configuration
=============

The configuration menu is where the appraisal feedback template is edited, the frequency is set,

> the evaluation scale is managed, and where the data for the 360 feedback is stored.

Author: I try to keep a sentence under each section and not have anything remain blank, which is why I put this here, to explain what you do in the Configuration section of the app. Does that make more sense now?

Settings

> --------

Author: The logic I used to format the doc, I have the main menu items as the main 'sections'. Configuration is the main title, since it is a top menu item. Each sub-head directly beneath the main menu items list out all the items you find within that menu. So if you click Configuration, you see Settings, Evaluation Scale, 360 Feedback, and Tags. Those are the 4 main sections in Configuration since that's how the menu is organized. The other main sections also match the top menu, so there is an Appraisals, Goals, and Reporting as well, and the sub-sections are what appears beneath those. This instance it is less obvious because Appraisals and Goals do not have anything beneath them, so those sections jus dive right into what those are/how they are used. Reports is the only other one, along with Configuration, that has a sub-menu.  I like to have the sections mirror the UI since that is intuitive to me. I hope that explains my logic as to why I organized the doc the way I did. If you have any questions, let me know!

Also, I put Configuration first since you need to make the configurations to understand how the settings affect everything before you go right in and do an appraisal. So that being first is the real wrench in the structure, visually.

To access the :guilabel:`Settings` menu, navigate to :menuselection:`Appraisals application -->
Configuration --> Settings`.

Feedback templates
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Feedback templates provide the outline of the form used during an employee appraisal. Any edits made
to this template are reflected in the appraisals sent to employees.

There are two default templates pre-configured for both employee feedback and manager feedback, each
with several sections containing questions and brief explanations on how to respond to the
questions. The :guilabel:`Employee Feedback Template` has the following sections: :guilabel:`My
work`, :guilabel:`My future`, and :guilabel:`My feelings`. The :guilabel:`Manager Feedback Template`
has the following sections: :guilabel:`Feedback`, :guilabel:`Evaluation`, and
:guilabel:`Improvements`.

Make any desired changes to the feedback templates by making changes directly in each template.

Appraisals
~~~~~~~~~~

The :guilabel:`Appraisal` section of the settings menu deals with the frequency that appraisals are

> performed, and if other feedback is available to request.

Author: No, I was trying to summarize the options that are configured in this section. I changed it to:

The :guilabel:`Appraisal` section of the settings menu determines the frequency that appraisals are
performed, and if it is possible to request other feedback.

I think that is more clear- what do you think?

.. image:: appraisals/appraisals-setting.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The appraisals sections with the timeline filled in and 360 feedback enabled.

.. _appraisals/appraisal-plan:

Appraisals plans
****************

Appraisals are pre-configured to be automatically generated six months after an employee is hired,
then another appraisal six months after that. After those initial two appraisals that first year,
appraisals are conducted once a year (every twelve months).

To modify the schedule, change the number of months in the blank fields under the
:guilabel:`Appraisal Plans` section.

.. important::
   If the :guilabel:`Appraisals Plans` section is modified, all empty :guilabel:`Next Appraisal
   Dates` are modified for all employees.

360 feedback
************

Enable the :guilabel:`360 Feedback` option to allow managers to request feedback from other
employees using a different survey form, at any time, independent of the appraisal schedule.
Typically, managers ask for feedback from other people who work with an employee they manage. This
includes the employee's various manager, peers, and direct reports.

> To view the :guilabel:`360 Degree Feedback` survey, click the :guilabel:`→ Internal link` icon after

Author: I meant after the name in that field- the arrow is next to it/"after" it. I can see how that might be confusing, so I changed it to "click the :guilabel:`→ Internal link` icon at the end of the :guilabel:`Default Template` field."

Do you think that is clearer?

the :guilabel:`Default Template` field. The :guilabel:`360 Feedback` survey loads. Make any desired

> changes to the survey here. For more information on how to edit a survey, refer to the

Author: This is not true- it is not a new 360 Feedback form. Any changes made to that template will change that template and does not create a new one.

> changes to the survey here. For more information on how to edit a survey, refer to the

Author: I made the other changes, except for the 'new' part.

:doc:`../marketing/surveys/create` document.

> .. note::

Author: I try to not have admonition blocks at the top, directly beneath a section- but that's just a personal preference. I will change this to an "important" since this is important and not just a casual note.

   The 360 Feedback form is a pre-configured survey within the *Surveys* application. In order to
   use the :guilabel:`360 Feedback` option, including the ability to edit the survey, the *Surveys*
   application must be installed.

Evaluation scale
----------------

To view the default final rating options that appear on the employee appraisal form, navigate to
:menuselection:`Appraisals application --> Configuration --> Evaluation Scale`. This presents the
ratings in a list view. The pre-configured ratings are :guilabel:`Needs Improvement`,
:guilabel:`Meets Expectations`, :guilabel:`Exceeds Expectations`, and :guilabel:`Strongly Exceeds
Expectations`. To add another rating, click the :guilabel:`New` button and a blank line appears at
the bottom of the list. Enter the name of the rating in the field. To rearrange the order of the

> ratings, click on the six small gray boxes to the left of a rating, and drag the rating to the

Author: It doesn't but the column name is name so I added that as the Gui name for the field. As for the small grey boxes, I don't believe they do- so I described them since I saw this description in another doc as well.

:guilabel:`+ Schedule an activity` and a blank activity form appears. Select :guilabel:`Meeting` for
the :guilabel:`Activity Type` from the drop-down menu. The form changes so only the
:guilabel:`Activity Type` and :guilabel:`Summary` fields appear. If scheduling an activity other
than a meeting (such as a phone call or a to-do), the fields that appear on the schedule activity
form changes.

.. note::
   The activity icon may appear as a number of different icons, depending on what, if any, scheduled
   activities are in place, and their due dates. If no activities are scheduled, the icon is a gray
   clock. For example, the icon may appear as a phone for a phone call, a cluster of people for a
   meeting, a Gantt chart for an appraisal form to be filled out, among others. The color of the
   icon indicates the status; a green icon means an activity is scheduled in the future, and a red
   icon means the activity is past due. For more details on activities, refer to the
   :doc:`../productivity/discuss/overview/plan_activities` document

   .. image:: appraisals/activity-icons.png
      :align: center
      :alt: The appraisal cards with the various activity icons highlighted.

> Enter a brief summary in the field, such as `Annual Appraisal for (Employee)`. Next, click the

Author: It's the Summary field, so I changed it to say 'brief description in the :guilabel:`Summary` field" instead

   Meeting`.

.. _appraisals/goals:

Goals
=====

An important aspect of the *Appraisals* application is the ability to set goals for employees to
work towards, and have them logged in the application. Goals are typically set during an appraisal,
so employees know what goals they need to work on before their next appraisal.

To view the various goals, navigate to :menuselection:`Appraisals Application --> Goals`. This
presents all goals for every employee in a kanban view.

Each goal card contains the following information:

- :guilabel:`Skill`: the name of the goal.
- :guilabel:`Name` the employee the goal is assigned to.
- :guilabel:`Deadline`: the due date for the goal.
- :guilabel:`Progress`: the percentage of competency set for the goal.
- :guilabel:`Employee`: the employee icon the goal is assigned to.

If a goal is completed, a :guilabel:`Done` banner appears in the top right corner of the goal card.

.. image:: appraisals/goals.png
  :align: center
  :alt: The goals kanban view, with nine goal cards.

.. note::
   Every individual goal requires its own entry for each employee. If employees have the same goal,

>    a goal card for each employee must appear on the list. For example, if both Bob and Sara have the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   a goal card for each employee appears on the list. For example, if both Bob and Sara have the
```

   same goal of `Typing`, two cards appear in the kanban view, one a `Typing` goal for Bob, and
   another `Typing` goal for Sara.

New goal
--------

> To create a new goal, navigate to :menuselection:`Appraisals Application --> Goals` and click
> :guilabel:`New`. A blank goal form appears. Enter the information on the card. The information
> requested is all the same information that appears on the :ref:`goal card <appraisals/goals>` in the
> kanban view, with the addition of a :guilabel:`Tags` field and a :guilabel:`Description` tab. The
> current user populates the :guilabel:`Employee` field by default, and the :guilabel:`Manager` field
> populates with the manager set on the employee profile. Make any changes necessary to the form, and
> add any notes that may be necessary to clarify the goal in the :guilabel:`Description` tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a new goal, navigate to :menuselection:`Appraisals Application --> Goals`, and click
:guilabel:`New` to open a blank goal form.

Enter the information on the card. The information requested is all the same information that appears on the :ref:`goal card <appraisals/goals>` in the kanban view, with the addition of a :guilabel:`Tags` field and a :guilabel:`Description` tab.

The current user populates the :guilabel:`Employee` field by default, and the :guilabel:`Manager` field
populates with the manager set on the employee profile. Make any necessary changes to the form, and
add any notes that might be useful to clarify the goal in the :guilabel:`Description` tab.
```

.. image:: appraisals/new-goal.png
  :align: center
  :alt: A goal form filled out for a Python skill, set to 50% proficiency.

Completed goals
---------------

When a goal has been met, it is important to update the record. A goal can be marked as done in one

> of two ways, from the main goals dashboard, or from the individual goal card.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of two ways: from the main goals dashboard, or from the individual goal card.
```

> On the main goals dashboard, click on the :guilabel:`three dots` in the top right of a goal card
> (this only appears when the mouse hovers over the corner). Click :guilabel:`Mark as Done` in the
> drop-down menu, and a green :guilabel:`Done` banner appears in the top right corner.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To mark a goal as done from the main goals dashboard, click on the :guilabel:`three dots` in the top right of a goal card
(this only appears when the mouse hovers over the corner). Then, click :guilabel:`Mark as Done` from the resulting
drop-down menu. A green :guilabel:`Done` banner appears in the top right corner.
```

> The other method is in the goal card itself. Click on a goal card to open the goal form. Click the
> :guilabel:`Mark as Done` button in the top left of the form. A green :guilabel:`Done` banner appears
> in the top right corner of the goal form.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To mark a goal as done from the goal card itself, click on a goal card to open that goal's form. Then, click the :guilabel:`Mark as Done` button in the top left of the form. A green :guilabel:`Done` banner appears
in the top right corner of the goal form.
```

Reporting
=========

> The *Appraisals* application tracks two metrics in two different reports, an :ref:`appraisal

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The *Appraisals* application tracks two metrics across two different reports: an :ref:`appraisal
```

analysis <appraisals/analysis>`, and a :ref:`skills evolution <appraisals/skills-report>`.

.. _appraisals/analysis:

Appraisal analysis
------------------

To access the :guilabel:`Appraisal Analysis` report, navigate to :menuselection:`Appraisals
Application --> Reporting --> Appraisal Analysis`. This displays a report of all the appraisals in
the database, highlighted in different colors to represent their status.

> Appraisals in yellow are completed, appraisals in orange are in-process (the appraisal is confirmed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Appraisals in yellow are completed, appraisals in orange are in-progress (the appraisal is confirmed
```

but not completed), and appraisals in gray are scheduled (according to the
:ref:`appraisals/appraisal-plan`) but have not been confirmed yet. The report displays the whole
current year by default, grouped by department.

To change the calendar view presented, change the date settings in the top left of the report. The
options to display are :guilabel:`Day`, :guilabel:`Week`, :guilabel:`Month`, and :guilabel:`Year`.

> Use the arrows to move forward or backwards in time. At any point, click the :guilabel:`Today`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the arrows to move forward or backwards in time. At any point, click the :guilabel:`Today`
```
```suggestion
Use the arrows to move forward or backward in time. At any point, click the :guilabel:`Today`
```

button to present the calendar so it includes today's date in the view. The report can have other
filters and groupings set in the search bar at the top.

.. image:: appraisals/analysis.png
  :align: center
  :alt: A report showing all the appraisals for the Appraisal Analysis report.

.. _appraisals/skills-report:

Skills evolution
----------------

To access the :guilabel:`Skills Evolution` report, navigate to :menuselection:`Appraisals
Application --> Reporting --> Skills Evolution`. This displays a report of all skills, grouped by
employee.

All the lines of the report are collapsed by default. To view the details of a line, click on a line

> to expand the data. Each skill has the following information listed for it:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to expand the data. Each skill has the following information listed:
```

- :guilabel:`Survey Name`: the name for the specific survey.
- :guilabel:`Responsible Person`: the employee responsible for the survey, including the month and
  year they were set as the responsible person.
- :guilabel:`Questions`: the number of questions in the particular survey.
- :guilabel:`Average Duration`: the average time that a user spends completing the survey.
- :guilabel:`Registered`: the number of people who have been sent the survey.
- :guilabel:`Completed`: the number of people who have completed the survey.

Each appraisal also has two buttons at the end of each line: a :guilabel:`Test` button and a
:guilabel:`See Results` button. To see what an appraisal looks like for the end user (i.e. an
employee), click the :guilabel:`Test` button, and the appraisal loads in a new browser tab. The
entire appraisal loads and can be clicked through without having to enter any answers. To exit,
close the tab. To view the results from everyone who completed an appraisal, click the
:guilabel:`See Results` button. This presents all the answers for the survey in a new tab. Each
question provides information on how many people responded to a question, and how many people

> skipped it. All answers for each question are visible. To exit, close the tab.

Reviewer: Just splitting the paragraph in 2, no other edits!

instructions on adding or updating a skill.

After an appraisal is completed and the skills have been updated, the next time an appraisal is
confirmed, the updated skills populate the skills tab.

.. image:: appraisals/skills.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The skills tab of an appraisal form, all filled out.

Private note tab
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If managers want to leave notes that are only visible to other managers, they can be entered in the
:guilabel:`Private Note` tab. The employee being evaluated does not have access to this tab, and the
tab does not appear on their appraisal.

Schedule a meeting
------------------

Once both portions of an appraisal are completed (the :ref:`employee
<appraisals/employee-feedback>` and :ref:`manager <appraisals/manager-feedback>` feedback sections),
it is time for the employee and manager to meet and to discuss the appraisal. A meeting can be
scheduled in one of two ways: either from the *Appraisals* application dashboard, or from an
individual appraisal card.

To schedule an appraisal from the dashboard of the *Appraisals* application, first navigate to
:menuselection:`Appraisals application --> Appraisals`.

> Click on the activity icon beneath the appraisal date on the desired appraisal card, and an activity

Author: Originally, I didn't think so since it was an icon and not the proper name, but now that you mention it, it is something you click, so YES. I changed my mind- agreed, and I am changing it in both places.

tags are pulled from a list that is configured from the settings.

To view a list of all existing goal tags, and to create new tags, navigate to
:menuselection:`Appraisals application --> Configuration --> Tags`.

All currently configured tags are presented in a list view. The *Appraisals* application does not
have any pre-configured tags, so all tags need to be added either from this list, or directly from
the goal form.

To create a new tag, click the :guilabel:`New` button, and a blank line appears. Enter the name of
the tag on the line. Press the enter key to save the tag and create a new blank line. Repeat this
for all tags that need to be added. The list of tags is automatically arranged in alphabetical
order.

Appraisals
==========

Navigate to the main appraisals dashboard by opening the *Appraisals* application. The appraisals
dashboard is the default view. To view the dashboard at any point in the application, navigate to
:menuselection:`Appraisals application --> Appraisals`.

All appraisals are displayed on the dashboard in a kanban view, with a list of groupings on the left
side of the dashboard, including :guilabel:`Company`, :guilabel:`Department`, and

> :guilabel:`Status`. Click any grouping option to view appraisals for **only** the chosen selection.

Author: Just making "Kanban" all caps as was decided yesterday in our group chat.

.. note::
   Only groupings with multiple selections appear in the list. For example, if a database only has
   one company, the :guilabel:`Companies` grouping does not appear, since there is no other company
   to select.

Each card displays the following information about the appraisal:

- :guilabel:`Name`: the employee's name.
- :guilabel:`Department`: the department the employee is part of.

> - :guilabel:`Company`: the company the employee works for.

Author: This only appears in a multi-company scenario. if there's only one, then there's nothing to select since they are part of the single company. I'll add a note!

Employee's feedback
*******************

Navigate to the main :menuselection:`Appraisals application` dashboard. The only entries visible on
the dashboard are appraisals for the employee themselves, and anyone they manage and have to provide
manager feedback for.

Click on the appraisal to open the appraisal form. Enter responses in the :guilabel:`Employee's
Feedback` section. When completed, click the :guilabel:`Not Visible to Manager` toggle (the default
setting once an appraisal is confirmed). The toggle changes to :guilabel:`Visible to Manager`.

.. _appraisals/manager-feedback:

Manager's feedback
******************

After the employee has completed the :guilabel:`Employee's Feedback` section, it is time for the
manager to fill out the :guilabel:`Manager's Feedback` section. The manager enters the responses in
the fields in the :ref:`same manner as the employee <appraisals/employee-feedback>`. When the
feedback section is completed, click the :guilabel:`Not Visible to Employee` toggle (the default
setting once an appraisal is confirmed). The toggle changes to :guilabel:`Visible to Employee`.

.. image:: appraisals/feedback.png
   :align: center

>    :alt: The feedback section for both employees and managers. The toggle buttons are highlighted.

Author: True- I had a hard time figuring out what to do with this since there was SO much text, and I wanted to show how it looked (side by side). This suggestion is much better- and people following along should understand.

of two ways: from the main goals dashboard, or from the individual goal card.

To mark a goal as done from the main goals dashboard, click on the :guilabel:`three dots` in the top
right of a goal card (this only appears when the mouse hovers over the corner). Then, click
:guilabel:`Mark as Done` from the resulting drop-down menu. A green :guilabel:`Done` banner appears
in the top right corner.

To mark a goal as done from the goal card itself, click on a goal card to open that goal's form.
Then, click the :guilabel:`Mark as Done` button in the top left of the form. A green
:guilabel:`Done` banner appears in the top right corner of the goal form.

Reporting
=========

The *Appraisals* application tracks two metrics across two different reports: an :ref:`appraisal
analysis <appraisals/analysis>`, and a :ref:`skills evolution <appraisals/skills-report>`.

.. _appraisals/analysis:

Appraisal analysis
------------------

To access the :guilabel:`Appraisal Analysis` report, navigate to :menuselection:`Appraisals
Application --> Reporting --> Appraisal Analysis`. This displays a report of all the appraisals in
the database, highlighted in different colors to represent their status.

> Appraisals in yellow are completed, appraisals in orange are in-progress (the appraisal is confirmed
> but not completed), and appraisals in gray are scheduled (according to the
> :ref:`appraisals/appraisal-plan`) but have not been confirmed yet. The report displays the whole
> current year by default, grouped by department.
> 
> To change the calendar view presented, change the date settings in the top left of the report. The
> options to display are :guilabel:`Day`, :guilabel:`Week`, :guilabel:`Month`, and :guilabel:`Year`.
> Use the arrows to move forward or backward in time. At any point, click the :guilabel:`Today` button
> to present the calendar so it includes today's date in the view. The report can have other filters
> and groupings set in the search bar at the top.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Appraisals in yellow are completed, appraisals in orange are in-progress (the appraisal is
confirmed, but not completed), and appraisals in gray are scheduled (according to the
:ref:`appraisals/appraisal-plan`), but have not been confirmed yet.

The report displays the whole current year, by default, grouped by department.

To change the calendar view presented, change the date settings in the top-left of the report. The
options to display are :guilabel:`Day`, :guilabel:`Week`, :guilabel:`Month`, and :guilabel:`Year`.
Use the arrows to move forward or backward in time.

At any point, click the :guilabel:`Today` button to present the calendar to include today's date in
the view.

The report can have other filters and groupings set in the search bar at the top.
```

.. image:: appraisals/analysis.png
  :align: center
  :alt: A report showing all the appraisals for the Appraisal Analysis report.

.. _appraisals/skills-report:

Skills evolution
----------------

To access the :guilabel:`Skills Evolution` report, navigate to :menuselection:`Appraisals
Application --> Reporting --> Skills Evolution`. This displays a report of all skills, grouped by
employee.

> All the lines of the report are collapsed by default. To view the details of a line, click on a line
> to expand the data. Each skill has the following information listed:
> 
> - :guilabel:`Employee`: name of the employee.
> - :guilabel:`Skill Type`: the category the skill falls under.
> - :guilabel:`Skill`: the specific, individual skill.
> - :guilabel:`Previous Skill Level`: the level the employee had previously achieved for the skill.
> - :guilabel:`Previous Skill Progress`: the previous percentage of competency achieved for the skill
>   (based on the :guilabel:`Skill Level`).
> - :guilabel:`Current Skill Level`: the current level the employee has achieved for the skill.
> - :guilabel:`Current Skill Progress`: the current percentage of competency achieved for the skill.
> - :guilabel:`Justification`: any notes entered on the skill explaining the progress.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
All the lines of the report are collapsed, by default. To view the details of a line, click on a
line to expand the data.

Each skill has the following information listed:

- :guilabel:`Employee`: name of the employee.
- :guilabel:`Skill Type`: the category the skill falls under.
- :guilabel:`Skill`: the specific, individual skill.
- :guilabel:`Previous Skill Level`: the level the employee had previously achieved for the skill.
- :guilabel:`Previous Skill Progress`: the previous percentage of competency achieved for the skill
  (based on the :guilabel:`Skill Level`).
- :guilabel:`Current Skill Level`: the current level the employee has achieved for the skill.
- :guilabel:`Current Skill Progress`: the current percentage of competency achieved for the skill.
- :guilabel:`Justification`: any notes entered on the skill explaining the progress.
```

If a skill level has increased, a reason for the improved rating can be entered into the
:guilabel:`Justification` field, such as `took a fluency language test` or `received Javascript
certification`.

Refer to the :ref:`Create a new employee <employees/skills>` document for detailed instructions on
adding or updating a skill.

After an appraisal is completed, and the skills have been updated, the next time an appraisal is
confirmed, the updated skills populate the :guilabel:`Skills` tab.

.. image:: appraisals/skills.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The skills tab of an appraisal form, all filled out.

Private note tab
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If managers want to leave notes that are only visible to other managers, they can be entered in the
:guilabel:`Private Note` tab. The employee being evaluated does **not** have access to this tab, and
the tab does **not** appear on their appraisal.

Schedule a meeting
------------------

Once both portions of an appraisal are completed (the :ref:`employee <appraisals/employee-feedback>`
and :ref:`manager <appraisals/manager-feedback>` feedback sections), it is time for the employee and

> manager to meet and to discuss the appraisal.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
manager to meet and discuss the appraisal.
```

A meeting can be scheduled in one of two ways: either from the *Appraisals* application dashboard,
or from an individual appraisal card.

To schedule an appraisal from the dashboard of the *Appraisals* application, first navigate to
:menuselection:`Appraisals application --> Appraisals`.

Click the :guilabel:`🕘 (clock)` icon, beneath the appraisal date on the desired appraisal card, and
a :guilabel:`Schedule Activity` pop-up window appears. Then, click :guilabel:`+ Schedule an
activity` to create a blank activity form.

Select :guilabel:`Meeting` for the :guilabel:`Activity Type` from the drop-down menu. Doing so
causes the form to change, so only the :guilabel:`Activity Type` and :guilabel:`Summary` fields
appear.

If scheduling an activity other than a meeting, such as a :guilabel:`Call` or a :guilabel:`To-Do`,

> the fields that appear on the :guilabel:`Schedule Activity` pop-up form changes, accordingly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the fields that appear on the :guilabel:`Schedule Activity` pop-up form change, accordingly.
```

.. note::
   The :guilabel:`🕘 (clock)` icon may appear as a number of different icons, depending on what, if

>    any, scheduled activities are in place, and their due dates.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   any, scheduled activities are in place, and the color represents their corresponding due dates.
```

   If no activities are scheduled, that is represented by a gray :guilabel:`🕘 (clock)` icon.

   However, if a specific activity is scheduled, the icon may appear as a :guilabel:`📞 (phone)`
   icon for a phone call, a :guilabel:`👥(group of people)` icon for a meeting, and so on.

   The color of the icon indicates the status; a green icon means an activity is scheduled in the
   future, and a red icon means the activity is past due.

   For more details on activities, refer to the
   :doc:`../productivity/discuss/overview/plan_activities` document.

   .. image:: appraisals/activity-icons.png
      :align: center
      :alt: The appraisal cards with the various activity icons highlighted.

Enter a brief description in the :guilabel:`Summary` field of the :guilabel:`Schedule Activity`
pop-up window, such as `Annual Appraisal for (Employee)`.

Next, click the :guilabel:`Open Calendar` button. From the calendar page that appears, navigate to,
and double-click on, the desired date and time for the meeting.

Doing so opens a :guilabel:`New Event` pop-up form. From this pop-up form, make any desired

> modifications, such as the :guilabel:`Start` time, or the :guilabel:`Name` of the meeting.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
modifications, such as designating a :guilabel:`Start` time, or giving a :guilabel:`Name` to the
meeting.
```

Add the appraisee in the :guilabel:`Attendees` section, and include anyone else who should be in the
meeting, if necessary.

To make the meeting a video call, instead of an in-person meeting, click :guilabel:`+ Odoo meeting`,
and a :guilabel:`Videocall URL` link appears in the field.

> When done making changes to the form, click :guilabel:`Save & Close`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once all the desired changes are complete, click :guilabel:`Save & Close`.
```

The meeting now appears on the calendar, and the invited parties are informed, via email.

.. image:: appraisals/meeting.png
  :align: center
  :alt: The meeting form with all information entered for Ronnie Hart's annual appraisal.

The other way to schedule a meeting is from the individual appraisal form. To do this, navigate to
the :menuselection:`Appraisal application` dashboard, then click on an appraisal card.

Next, click on the :guilabel:`Meeting` smart button, and the calendar loads. Follow the same
directions above to create the meeting.

.. note::
   If no meetings are scheduled, the :guilabel:`Meeting` smart button says :guilabel:`No Meeting`.

.. _appraisals/goals:

Goals
=====

The ability to set goals for employees to work toward is an important feature of Odoo *Appraisals*.
Goals are typically set during an appraisal, so the employee knows what they need to work toward

> improving before their next appraisal.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
before their next appraisal.
```

> To view all goals, navigate to :menuselection:`Appraisals Application --> Goals`. This presents all

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To view all goals, navigate to :menuselection:`Appraisals application --> Goals`. This presents all
```

> goals for every employee in a default Kanban view.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
the goals for every employee, in a default Kanban view.
```

Each goal card contains the following information:

- :guilabel:`Skill`: the name of the goal.

> - :guilabel:`Name` the employee the goal is assigned to.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- :guilabel:`Name`: the employee the goal is assigned to.
```

- :guilabel:`Deadline`: the due date for the goal.
- :guilabel:`Progress`: the percentage of competency set for the goal.
- :guilabel:`Employee`: the profile icon of the employee the goal is assigned to.

If a goal is completed, a :guilabel:`Done` banner appears in the top-right corner of the goal card.

.. image:: appraisals/goals.png
  :align: center
  :alt: The goals Kanban view, with nine goal cards.

.. note::
   Every individual goal requires its own entry for each employee. If employees have the same goal,
   a goal card for each employee appears on the list. For example, if both Bob and Sara have the
   same goal of `Typing`, two cards appear in the Kanban view: one `Typing` goal for Bob, and
   another `Typing` goal for Sara.

New goal
--------

> To create a new goal, navigate to :menuselection:`Appraisals Application --> Goals`, and click

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To create a new goal, navigate to :menuselection:`Appraisals application --> Goals`, and click
```

one of two ways: from the main :guilabel:`Goals` dashboard, or from the individual goal card.

To mark a goal as `Done` from the main :guilabel:`Goals` dashboard, click on the :guilabel:`⋮ (three
dots)` icon in the top-right of a goal card.

.. important::
   The :guilabel:`⋮ (three dots)` icon **only** appears when the mouse hovers over the corner of a
   goal card.

Then, click :guilabel:`Mark as Done` from the resulting drop-down menu. A green :guilabel:`Done`
banner appears in the top-right corner of the goal card.

To mark a goal as `Done` from the goal card itself, click on a goal card to open that goal's form.
Then, click the :guilabel:`Mark as Done` button in the top-left of the form. When clicked, a green
:guilabel:`Done` banner appears in the top-right corner of the goal form.

Reporting
=========

The *Appraisals* application tracks two metrics across two different reports: an :ref:`appraisal
analysis <appraisals/analysis>`, and a :ref:`skills evolution <appraisals/skills-report>`.

.. _appraisals/analysis:

Appraisal analysis
------------------

To access the :guilabel:`Appraisal Analysis` report, navigate to :menuselection:`Appraisals

> Application --> Reporting --> Appraisal Analysis`. This displays a report of all the appraisals in

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
application --> Reporting --> Appraisal Analysis`. This displays a report of all the appraisals in
```

the database, highlighted in different colors to represent their status.

Appraisals in yellow are completed, appraisals in orange are in-progress (the appraisal is
confirmed, but not completed), and appraisals in gray are scheduled (according to the
:ref:`appraisals/appraisal-plan`), but have not been confirmed yet.

The report displays the whole current year, by default, grouped by department.

To change the calendar view presented, change the date settings in the top-left of the report. The
options to display are :guilabel:`Day`, :guilabel:`Week`, :guilabel:`Month`, and :guilabel:`Year`.
Use the arrows to move forward or backward in time.

> At any point, click the :guilabel:`Today` button to present the calendar to includes today's date in

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At any point, click the :guilabel:`Today` button to present the calendar to include today's date in
```

the view.

> The report can have other filters and groupings set in the search bar at the top.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The report can have other filters and groupings set in the :guilabel:`Search...` bar at the top.
```

.. image:: appraisals/analysis.png
  :align: center
  :alt: A report showing all the appraisals for the Appraisal Analysis report.

.. _appraisals/skills-report:

Skills evolution
----------------

To access the :guilabel:`Skills Evolution` report, navigate to :menuselection:`Appraisals

> Application --> Reporting --> Skills Evolution`. This displays a report of all skills, grouped by

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
application --> Reporting --> Skills Evolution`. This displays a report of all skills, grouped by
```

.. image:: appraisals/goals.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The goals Kanban view, with nine goal cards.

.. note::
   Every individual goal requires its own entry for each employee. If employees have the same goal,
   a goal card for each employee appears on the list. For example, if both Bob and Sara have the
   same goal of `Typing`, two cards appear in the Kanban view: one `Typing` goal for Bob, and
   another `Typing` goal for Sara.

New goal
--------

To create a new goal, navigate to :menuselection:`Appraisals application --> Goals`, and click
:guilabel:`New` to open a blank goal form.

Enter the information on the card. The information requested is all the same information that
appears on the :ref:`goal card <appraisals/goals>` in the Kanban view, with the addition of a
:guilabel:`Tags` field and a :guilabel:`Description` tab.

The current user populates the :guilabel:`Employee` field by default, and the :guilabel:`Manager`
field populates with the manager set on the employee profile.

Make any necessary changes to the form, and add any notes that might be useful to clarify the goal
in the :guilabel:`Description` tab.

> .. image:: appraisals/new-goal.png
>   :align: center
>   :alt: A goal form filled out for a Python skill, set to 50% proficiency.

Reviewer 3: Image indentation
```suggestion
.. image:: appraisals/new-goal.png
   :align: center
   :alt: A goal form filled out for a Python skill, set to 50% proficiency.
```

of the :guilabel:`Default Template` field. The :guilabel:`360 Feedback` survey loads, and any
desired changes to the survey can be made.

For more information on how to edit a survey, refer to the :doc:`../marketing/surveys/create`
document.

.. important::
   The :guilabel:`360 Feedback` form is a pre-configured survey within the *Surveys* application. In
   order to use the :guilabel:`360 Feedback` option, including the ability to edit the survey, the
   *Surveys* application **must** be installed.

Evaluation scale
----------------

On each employee appraisal form, final rating options appear by default. To view and edit these
options, navigate to :menuselection:`Appraisals application --> Configuration --> Evaluation Scale`.
This presents the ratings in a list view.

The pre-configured ratings are :guilabel:`Needs Improvement`, :guilabel:`Meets Expectations`,
:guilabel:`Exceeds Expectations`, and :guilabel:`Strongly Exceeds Expectations`. To add another
rating, click the :guilabel:`New` button.

When the :guilabel:`New` button is clicked on the :guilabel:`Evaluation Scale` page, a blank line
appears at the bottom of the list. Enter the name of the rating in the field.

> To rearrange the order of the ratings, click the :guilabel:`six small gray boxes` icon to the left

Reviewer 3: Add parentheses around the icon descriptor to keep a consistent format
```suggestion
To rearrange the order of the ratings, click the :guilabel:`(six small gray boxes)` icon to the left
```

document.

.. note::
   In previous versions of Odoo, this section was referred to as :guilabel:`Surveys`.

Tags
----

An additional feature of the *Appraisals* application is the ability to set :ref:`goals
<appraisals/goals>` for employees. On each goal form, there is a field to add tags. The available
tags are pulled from a list that is configured from the settings.

To view a list of all existing goal tags, and to create new tags, go to the :guilabel:`Goal Tags`
page, by navigating to :menuselection:`Appraisals application --> Configuration --> Tags`.

All currently configured tags are presented in a list view.

The *Appraisals* application does **not** have any pre-configured tags, so all tags need to be added
from this list, or directly from the goal form.

To create a new tag from the :guilabel:`Goal Tags` page, click the :guilabel:`New` button, and a
blank line appears.

Enter the name of the tag on the line. Then, press the enter key to save the tag, and create a new
blank line. Repeat this for all tags that need to be added.

The list of tags is automatically arranged in alphabetical order.

Appraisals
==========

> Navigate to the main :guilabel:`Appraisals` dashboard by opening the *Appraisals* application. The
> appraisals dashboard is the default view.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Navigate to the main *Appraisals* dashboard by opening the :menuselection:`Appraisals` application.
The :guilabel:`Appraisals` dashboard is the default view.
```

To schedule an appraisal from the dashboard of the *Appraisals* application, first navigate to
:menuselection:`Appraisals application --> Appraisals`.

Click the :guilabel:`🕘 (clock)` icon, beneath the appraisal date on the desired appraisal card, and
a :guilabel:`Schedule Activity` pop-up window appears. Then, click :guilabel:`+ Schedule an
activity` to create a blank activity form.

Select :guilabel:`Meeting` for the :guilabel:`Activity Type` from the drop-down menu. Doing so
causes the form to change, so only the :guilabel:`Activity Type` and :guilabel:`Summary` fields
appear.

If scheduling an activity other than a meeting, such as a :guilabel:`Call` or a :guilabel:`To-Do`,
the fields that appear on the :guilabel:`Schedule Activity` pop-up form change, accordingly.

.. note::
   The :guilabel:`🕘 (clock)` icon may appear as a number of different icons, depending on what, if
   any, scheduled activities are in place, and the color represents their corresponding due dates.

   If no activities are scheduled, that is represented by a gray :guilabel:`🕘 (clock)` icon.

   However, if a specific activity is scheduled, the icon may appear as a :guilabel:`📞 (phone)`

>    icon for a phone call, a :guilabel:`👥(group of people)` icon for a meeting, and so on.

Reviewer 3: Add a space between the icon and its descriptor
```suggestion
   icon for a phone call, a :guilabel:`👥 (group of people)` icon for a meeting, and so on.
```

   :doc:`../productivity/discuss/overview/plan_activities` document.

   .. image:: appraisals/activity-icons.png
      :align: center
      :alt: The appraisal cards with the various activity icons highlighted.

Enter a brief description in the :guilabel:`Summary` field of the :guilabel:`Schedule Activity`
pop-up window, such as `Annual Appraisal for (Employee)`.

Next, click the :guilabel:`Open Calendar` button. From the calendar page that appears, navigate to,
and double-click on, the desired date and time for the meeting.

Doing so opens a :guilabel:`New Event` pop-up form. From this pop-up form, make any desired
modifications, such as designating a :guilabel:`Start` time, or giving a :guilabel:`Name` to the
meeting.

Add the appraisee in the :guilabel:`Attendees` section, and include anyone else who should be in the
meeting, if necessary.

To make the meeting a video call, instead of an in-person meeting, click :guilabel:`+ Odoo meeting`,
and a :guilabel:`Videocall URL` link appears in the field.

Once all the desired changes are complete, click :guilabel:`Save & Close`.

The meeting now appears on the calendar, and the invited parties are informed, via email.

> .. image:: appraisals/meeting.png
>   :align: center
>   :alt: The meeting form with all information entered for Ronnie Hart's annual appraisal.

Reviewer 3: Image attribute alignment
```suggestion
.. image:: appraisals/meeting.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The meeting form with all information entered for Ronnie Hart's annual appraisal.
```

Next, click on the :guilabel:`Meeting` smart button, and the calendar loads. Follow the same
directions above to create the meeting.

.. note::
   If no meetings are scheduled, the :guilabel:`Meeting` smart button says :guilabel:`No Meeting`.

.. _appraisals/goals:

Goals
=====

The ability to set goals for employees to work toward is an important feature of Odoo *Appraisals*.
Goals are typically set during an appraisal, so the employee knows what they need to work toward
before their next appraisal.

To view all goals, navigate to :menuselection:`Appraisals application --> Goals`. This presents all
the goals for every employee, in a default Kanban view.

Each goal card contains the following information:

- :guilabel:`Skill`: the name of the goal.
- :guilabel:`Name`: the employee the goal is assigned to.
- :guilabel:`Deadline`: the due date for the goal.
- :guilabel:`Progress`: the percentage of competency set for the goal.
- :guilabel:`Employee`: the profile icon of the employee the goal is assigned to.

If a goal is completed, a :guilabel:`Done` banner appears in the top-right corner of the goal card.

> .. image:: appraisals/goals.png
>   :align: center
>   :alt: The goals Kanban view, with nine goal cards.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.. image:: appraisals/goals.png
   :align: center
   :alt: The goals Kanban view, with nine goal cards.
```

---------------

When a goal has been met, it is important to update the record. A goal can be marked as `Done` in
one of two ways: from the main :guilabel:`Goals` dashboard, or from the individual goal card.

To mark a goal as `Done` from the main :guilabel:`Goals` dashboard, click on the :guilabel:`⋮ (three
dots)` icon in the top-right of a goal card.

.. important::
   The :guilabel:`⋮ (three dots)` icon **only** appears when the mouse hovers over the corner of a
   goal card.

Then, click :guilabel:`Mark as Done` from the resulting drop-down menu. A green :guilabel:`Done`
banner appears in the top-right corner of the goal card.

To mark a goal as `Done` from the goal card itself, click on a goal card to open that goal's form.
Then, click the :guilabel:`Mark as Done` button in the top-left of the form. When clicked, a green
:guilabel:`Done` banner appears in the top-right corner of the goal form.

Reporting
=========

The *Appraisals* application tracks two metrics across two different reports: an :ref:`appraisal
analysis <appraisals/analysis>`, and a :ref:`skills evolution <appraisals/skills-report>`.

.. _appraisals/analysis:

Appraisal analysis
------------------

> To access the :guilabel:`Appraisal Analysis` report, navigate to :menuselection:`Appraisals
> application --> Reporting --> Appraisal Analysis`. This displays a report of all the appraisals in
> the database, highlighted in different colors to represent their status.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To access the *Appraisal Analysis* report, navigate to :menuselection:`Appraisals application -->
Reporting --> Appraisal Analysis`. This displays a report of all the appraisals in the database,
highlighted in different colors to represent their status.
```

Appraisals in yellow are completed, appraisals in orange are in-progress (the appraisal is
confirmed, but not completed), and appraisals in gray are scheduled (according to the
:ref:`appraisals/appraisal-plan`), but have not been confirmed yet.

The report displays the whole current year, by default, grouped by department.

To change the calendar view presented, change the date settings in the top-left of the report. The
options to display are :guilabel:`Day`, :guilabel:`Week`, :guilabel:`Month`, and :guilabel:`Year`.
Use the arrows to move forward or backward in time.

At any point, click the :guilabel:`Today` button to present the calendar to include today's date in
the view.

The report can have other filters and groupings set in the :guilabel:`Search...` bar at the top.

> .. image:: appraisals/analysis.png
>   :align: center
>   :alt: A report showing all the appraisals for the Appraisal Analysis report.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.. image:: appraisals/analysis.png
   :align: center
   :alt: A report showing all the appraisals for the Appraisal Analysis report.
```

.. _appraisals/skills-report:

Skills evolution
----------------

> To access the :guilabel:`Skills Evolution` report, navigate to :menuselection:`Appraisals
> application --> Reporting --> Skills Evolution`. This displays a report of all skills, grouped by
> employee.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To access the *Skills Evolution* report, navigate to :menuselection:`Appraisals application -->
Reporting --> Skills Evolution`. This displays a report of all skills, grouped by employee.
```

All the lines of the report are collapsed, by default. To view the details of a line, click on a
line to expand the data.

Each skill has the following information listed:

- :guilabel:`Employee`: name of the employee.
- :guilabel:`Skill Type`: the category the skill falls under.
- :guilabel:`Skill`: the specific, individual skill.
- :guilabel:`Previous Skill Level`: the level the employee had previously achieved for the skill.
- :guilabel:`Previous Skill Progress`: the previous percentage of competency achieved for the skill
  (based on the :guilabel:`Skill Level`).
- :guilabel:`Current Skill Level`: the current level the employee has achieved for the skill.
- :guilabel:`Current Skill Progress`: the current percentage of competency achieved for the skill.
- :guilabel:`Justification`: any notes entered on the skill explaining the progress.

> .. image:: appraisals/skills-report.png
>   :align: center
>   :alt: A report showing all the skills grouped by employee.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
.. image:: appraisals/skills-report.png
   :align: center
   :alt: A report showing all the skills grouped by employee.
```
